# AWS Elastic Beanstalk Infrastructure

Reference: [luizhlelis/elastic-beanstalk-playground](https://github.com/luizhlelis/elastic-beanstalk-playground)

## Pre-requisites

- Terraform;
- AWS Account;
- Create an user on IAM with the following permissions: `AmazonEC2FullAccess`, `AmazonS3FullAccess`, `AdministratorAccess-AWSElasticBeanstalk`, `AWSAppRunnerServicePolicyForECRAccess`, `EC2InstanceProfileForImageBuilderECRContainerBuilds`;
- Create IAM Role for `EC2` as `AWS Service` and attach `AWSElasticBeanstalkWebTier`, `AWSElasticBeanstalkMulticontainer`, `AWSElasticBeanstalkWorkerTier` and `AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly` policies to it. The IAM role should be named as `aws-elasticbeanstalk-ec2-role`.

## Running commands

```shell
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<your-access-key-here>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<your-secret-key-here>"
export AWS_REGION="<your-aws-region-here>"
```

```shell
terraform init
```

```shell
terraform plan -out plan-output
```

```shell
terraform apply plan-output
```

## Troubleshooting

Follow [these steps](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4742478/ssh-to-elastic-beanstalk-instance) to configure your key-pair to remotely access your `ElasticBeanstalk` EC2 instance through `ssh`. 

```shell
ssh -i <your-private-key>.pem ec2-user@<ec2-instance-name>.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

> **NOTE:** navigate to your EC2 instance in the AWS console and you'll see a `Connect` button at the top right corner. Click on it and then go to the `SSH client` tab, you'll see a command example on how to access it remotely.  

The `docker-compose` file is placed in the following path of the EC2 instance:

```shell
/var/app/current/docker-compose.yml
```

## Reverse Proxy

`Nginx` is configured in the following path of the host EC2 machine:

```shell
cat etc/nginx/nginx.conf
```

> **NOTE:** for more information on how to set up `nginx` configuration, take a look at [this documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/platforms-linux-extend.html).

## Deploy

To deploy your application on Elastic Beanstalk you need to push the API image to a application

[According to AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/create_deploy_docker.container.console.html#docker-env-cfg.env-variables), it's allowed to configure environment variables following one of these approaches:

- Add the `.env` file generated by Elastic Beanstalk to the `env_file` configuration option in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

- Directly define the environment variables in the `docker-compose.yml` file.

For some reason, I could only configure environments following the first approach (`.env` file). To upload both files you must put them in the same compressed `.zip` folder, take a look at the [deploy-folder.zip](./deploy-folder.zip) example, and deploy this compressed folder instead of a single `docker-compose.yml` file.

[Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/single-container-docker-configuration.html#docker-configuration.no-compose)

## Running commands to elastic beanstalk deploy

Retrieve an authentication token and authenticate your Docker client to your registry. Use the AWS CLI:

```shell
aws ecr get-login-password --region <your-aws-region> | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 417268992578.dkr.ecr.us-east-2.amazonaws.com
```

> **NOTE:** If you receive an error using the AWS CLI, make sure that you have the latest version of the AWS CLI and Docker installed.

Build your Docker image using the following command. For information on building a Docker file from scratch see the instructions here . You can skip this step if your image is already built:

```shell
docker build -t sgaa .
```

> **NOTE:** if you're using a machine with AMD64 chip (M1/M2) the process is different, take a look at the steps below.

If you're using a machine with AMD64 chip (M1/M2), then update [Dockerfile](src/Dockerfile) publish step to `-r linux-x64`, and instead of the command above, run the following one:

```shell
docker build -t sgaa . --platform amd64
```

After the build completes, tag your image so you can push the image to this repository:

```shell
docker tag sgaa:latest 417268992578.dkr.ecr.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/sgaa:latest
```

Run the following command to push this image to your newly created AWS repository:

```shell
docker push 417268992578.dkr.ecr.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/sgaa:latest
```
